Israel says it has rescued two hostages
during a raid in gaza's southern city of
Rafa the men aged 60 and 70 are
reportedly in stable condition and have
been taken to a hospital near Tel Aviv
Israel says the hostages were freed as
its forces carried out overnight strikes
in Rafa Hamas ran Health authorities say
at least 48 people were killed Israel
launched its military operation in Gaza
after Hamas carried out the October 7
Terror
attacks for more on this I'm joined Now
by DW correspondent Rebecca RS in
Jerusalem Rebecca what do we know about
the freed
hostages well barish the two men have
been named as Fernando Maron and Louie
har both in their 60s and 70s uh they
were both Argentinian Israeli Nationals
and they were kidna kidnapped on October
7 from the Kuts of near yitzak they were
also kidnapped with some of their family
members they were released in the
November hostage exchange and now these
two men uh were rescued overnight
they've been taken to a hospital near
Tel Aviv family members who have been in
contact with them say the men were thin
and pale but otherwise looked relatively
okay in good condition they will of
course be completely medically checked
and and go through the the processes now
uh that is standard for any hostage
release um the IDF says that uh this
operation was carried out overnight at
around 2 a.m. they were able to get
access a special ops Unit were able to
get access to this apartment building
where the men were located on the second
floor according to the Israeli military
they said it was a uh a highly um
specialized operation and that it was
done on credible intelligence and that
they had in fact been waiting for some
time for the conditions to be right to
carry out this operation that they had
intelligence about the whereabouts of of
these two men for some time but just
were waiting for that right moment to be
able to carry out this operation there
are also reports of air strikes that the
Israeli forces conducted was that in
support of this Rescue
Mission well the Israeli military saying
that these air strikes were needed to be
carried out in order to provide cover
for this special operation we're hearing
more than a dozen air strikes were
carried out and as you were reporting
the AAS run Health Ministry putting the
number of casualties at 37 we're also
hearing reports from a hospital with a
lower casualty figure and and hearing as
well that Hamas saying that the number
could be much higher so uh definitely a
very intense operation from all reports
that we're hearing eyewitness reports
and video that we're seeing posted on
social media there was an ensuing Panic
uh people some people reporting that
they thought that the ground operation
had begun and was underway and we're
trying to run trying to find uh a cover
we see women with children running
trying to escape now more than a million
people are Sheltering in this small
southern city that's on top of the some
300,000 people that were already living
there uh when this operation began so
we're 1.3 million at minimum and they're
running out of places to go many of them
have been displaced several times the
conditions in that City are horrific by
all accounts and getting worse people
warning that any ground operation would
see a a catastro the humanitarian
catastrophe so certainly some dire
situation a very terrifying situation
for civilians Sheltering there overnight
but the Israeli military saying that
they needed to carry out this operation
in order to be able to rescue these
hostages we leave it there for the time
being but thanks so much for joining us
now Rebecca rers from
Jerusalem and for the wider implications
of that operation I'm joined Now by Mike
Martin a former British army officer and
security Analyst at Kings College London
good morning Mike are the overnight air
strikes in Rafa the start of military
operations there would you
say absolutely I mean usually and and
the Israeli Arm Forces are indifferent
to how the British or the Americans
would do it but usually ground
operations are preceded by a period of
aerial operations where you try to take
out some of the more High value targets
so yes it does seem that the incursion
into Rafa has begun US President Joe
Biden says that Israel should have a
quote credible and executable plan that
ensures the safety of more than a
million Palestinians who are Sheltering
in Rafa does Israel have such a
plan I I can't speak so what's going on
inside the Israeli government but I can
speak to the fact that it's almost
impossible to have a plan where you have
a million people as you've just said but
also cramped into a very very small area
and these people have left other areas
in Gaza fled for safety in Rafa and
they're up against of course Rafa is the
Egyptian border so they can't go any
further south it's very very difficult
if you're doing the kind of operations
that Israel has been doing so far so
aerial bombardment and ground troops
moving in is very difficult to uh
separate between military targets so
Hamas militants and civilian targets and
of course that's one of the things that
you must do if you want to fight and
remain within the laws of war this is
not the first time that there that there
are calls on the idea to try and work
out a plan to spare any collateral
damage and the lives of civilians who
are caught up in a war zone from
everything that you have seen over the
past few months does it appear that the
IDF has at all paid heat to any
suggestions that it avoid this kind of
collateral
damage I think there's there's two
things here one is the evidence that we
have in front of us of uh civilian
casualties and although the number is
disputed it is many many many thousands
some say up to 25 or 30,000 civilian
casualties and that is a number that
tells us that there is more that could
have been done to distinguish between
militants and civilians and to prot
protect civilians but the other thing I
think we should look at as well is the
rhetoric of some Israeli government
ministers and senior members of the IDF
we we've talked about laying Siege to
Gaza we've talked about cutting off
power these are all things that expose
perhaps the intent of the IDF and the
Israeli government is not always as they
say to distinguish properly between uh
militants and civilians and to protect
those civilians
Benjamin nety says that total Victory is
possible in Gaza within months would you
say that's a realistic
assertion no it's it's it's it's
impossible um the Israeli government has
set itself two Targets one is to uh kill
destroy Hamas quote unquote and the
other is to free all the hostages well
the period that we had the most hostages
released was when there was a ceasefire
and as for destroying Hamas several
months the operation Hamas is still able
to launch rockets at Israel it's
basically impossible to destroy military
targets when you when they are
interspersed amongst civilians living in
high density in urban areas the only way
to do that is to kill all the civilians
so that's a huge problem for Israel
we'll leave it there for the time being
thanks so much for joining us today Mike
Maron thank
you